---
layout: post
published: true
categories: react_fresh
title: initial files
---

The file environment consists of at least 2 files. 

index.html - in the body, add a div with an id.  This div is called the "root element"

```javascript
    <div id = "app"></div>
```

index.js -  this file imports components and renders them into the corresponding root element.

The render method consists of two arguments
1. The component to render
2. The root element on which to render

```javascript

import Parent from "./components/parent";

ReactDOM.render(<Parent />, document.getElementById("app"));
```

There are two ways of creating a component: 

1) We can write a JS function: 

```javascript
function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>;
}
```
2) Or we can write an ES6 class: 

class Welcome extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
  }
}

In both cases, you would invoke Welcome with the next line, and export it with the second: 

const element = <Welcome name="Sara" />;
export default element;

Which I assume is the equivalent to: 

const element = Welcome("Sara")

On the index.js page, you would then render() element, which invokes element.   

```javascript

ReactDOM.render(
  element,
  document.getElementById('root')
);
```

This would be the equivalent of element(), which fires Welcome("Sara"), and gets the wheels moving.

Typically, however, we export the App by itself, and instead of passing in "Sara", we would set "Sara" in the components state, and change this state via 'setState'

Let’s recap what happens in this example:

1. We call ReactDOM.render() with the <Welcome name="Sara" /> element.

Then behind the scenes: 

1. React calls the Welcome component with {name: 'Sara'} as the props.
2. Our Welcome component returns a <h1>Hello, Sara</h1> element as the result.
3. React DOM efficiently updates the DOM to match <h1>Hello, Sara</h1>.


