---
layout: post
published: true
categories: react_fresh
title: JSX
---


JSX tags look much like an HTML tag.  

A typical tag looks like this: 

<div id="foo">Hello world</div>

You can use self-closing tags: 

<div className="sidebar" />

If the first initial of the tag name is capitalized, then React knows it is dealing with a component name.  Here's a self-closing one:

```javascript
ReactDOM.render(<Parent />, ...
```

Sometimes, component tags do use closing tags.  This example shows a component tags enclosing non-componet tags: 

```javascript
<Child key={counter.id}>
    <h4> Title </h4>
</Child>
```
----

JSX is not required.  It is just "syntactic sugar" for calling createElement(), which is a Document Object Method.  For example, using regular JS, we can render HTML:  

```javascript
var div = document.createElement('div');
div.textContent = "hello world";
div.setAttribute('class', 'yellow');
document.body.appendChild(div);
```
Which will render this onto the DOM:

```javascript
<div class="yellow">hello world</div>.
```

As easy, we can import 'react' into React and apply this same logic: 

```javascript
const title = React.createElement('h1', {}, 'hello world');
```

There are three arguments above: 

1. element type: if its an HTML element, we use a string "<h1>" else if a Component, we pass in the variable the component is assigned to.
2. object containing props to be passed to component.  a className attribute might appear in this object.  
3. children of this component - a string would become text content; a reference to another element or component would appear nested inside of this one.  We could even add multiple in an array form.


---JSX? --- 


A self-closing tag, also known as a void element contains no child elements or text node.  

With a closing tag, use a space between the tagName and the closing slash. 




JSX expressions are JavaScript expressions too. When compiled, they actually become regular JavaScript objects. For instance, the code below:

const hello = <h1 className = "greet"> Hello World </h1>

will be compiled to

const hello = React.createElement {
    type: "h1",
    props: {
        className: "greet",  
        children: "Hello World" 
        }
}

When we write a render method, we can do: 

const JSX = <h1> hi </h1>

Then, render: 

ReactDOM.render(JSX, document.getElementById('root'))

    
  