---
layout: post
published: true
categories: react
title: State
---

State is a property that includes any data that this component needs. 

It typically appears in the form of an object and can be placed after the class declaration and before the render(): 

```javascript
class Counter extends Component {
    state = {
        count: 1,
        address: {
            street: ""
        }
    };
    ...
```

Then, in the render(), you can display any of the properties in this object by refering to it via the *this* keyword in curly braces.  

Curly braces are JSX syntax tha tis used to evalutate a Javascript expression during complication.  Such an expression can be a variable, function, object, or any code that resolves into a value.  These braces are also used to define method bodies, objects, and classes in ES6, so.. 

Below, we've also included this data in a <span> element in case we later want to use it as part of a block element:  

```javascript
render() {
    return (
        <React.Fragment>
            <span> {this.state.count} </span>
            <button>Increment</button>
        </React.Fragment>
    )
};
```

The render method will only be one of many methods that you might include in this class.  You could also use create a method (we'll call it formatCount()) that will print "Begin Game" if the counting has not begun.  You could place this method after the render() method: 

```javascript
  formatCount() {
    const { count } = this.state;
    return count === 0 
        ? "Begin Game" : count;
  }
```

In the above snippet, the reference to the this.state.count is destructured down to count.  Then, a ternary operator is used to return the words "Begin Game" if count is 0, or the actual count if it is not zero.

In this same snippet, we could use a tag instead of a string: 

```javascript
return count === 0 ? <h1>Zero</h1> : count;
```

Finally, in order to show this, we would replace our former <span> tag with this one, which would activate the method: 

```javascript
<span> {this.formatCount()} </span>
```


